# Generalization-capabilities-and-robustness-of-hybrid-machine-learning-models
This is the code used to obtain the results from the paper "Generalization capabilities and robustness of hybrid machine learning models grounded in flow physics compared to purely deep learning models".

This study investigates the generalization capabilities and robustness of purely deep learning models and hybrid models based on physical principles in fluid dynamics applications, specifically focusing on iteratively forecasting the temporal evolution of flow dynamics. Three autoregressive models were compared: a convolutional autoencoder combined with a convolutional LSTM (ConvLSTM), a variational autoencoder (VAE) combined with a ConvLSTM and a hybrid model that combines proper orthogonal decomposition (POD) with a LSTM (POD-DL). These models were tested on two high-dimensional, nonlinear datasets representing the velocity field of flow past a circular cylinder in both laminar and turbulent regimes. The study used latent dimension methods, enabling a bijective reduction of high-dimensional dynamics into a lower-order space to facilitate future predictions. While the VAE and ConvLSTM models accurately predicted laminar flow, the hybrid POD-DL model outperformed the others across both laminar and turbulent flow regimes. This success is attributed to the model's ability to incorporate modal decomposition, reducing the dimensionality of the data, by a non-parametric method, and simplifying the forecasting component. By leveraging POD, the model not only gained insight into the underlying physics, improving prediction accuracy with less training data, but also reduce the number of trainable parameters as POD is non-parametric. The findings emphasize the potential of hybrid models, particularly those integrating modal decomposition and deep learning, in predicting complex flow dynamics.
